Add maintainer minutes blog post for May-June 2026 (#4294)
nf-core/website: sites/main-site/src/content/blog/2026/maintainers-minutes-2026-06-26.md

---
title: "Maintainers Minutes: May - June 2026"
subtitle: "Keeping you informed of the latest maintainers discussions"

> pubDate: 2026-06-31T10:00:00+01:00

Author: ```suggestion
pubDate: 2026-06-30T10:00:00+01:00
```

We only have 30 days in June

> pubDate: 2026-06-30T10:00:00+01:00

Author: ```suggestion
pubDate: 2026-07-01T10:00:00+01:00
```

#### Dealing with PRs made by/with agents

Related to that, we had a long discussion about how to deal with PRs made by or with agents.
These were some of the several key points that were raised, and what we talked about:

- Snapshots hallucination: AI agents can sometimes generate incorrect content
- Human responsibility: The human launching agents should be responsible, not the reviewers
- Agent origin doesn't matter: We don't care if contributions come from an agent or a human, but the volume is concerning
- Closing unsatisfactory PRs: Maxime recommends just closing PRs if the reviewer is not happy
- Assisted by tags: It would be nice to have an "assisted by" comment or tag somewhere to identify AI-generated contributions

The general consensus was that an "assisted by" tag would be useful, and that in the end the human launching the agent should be responsible for the quality of the contribution.
The reviewers should not be expected to verify the correctness of llm-generated content, and they are free to close PRs if they are not satisfied with the quality.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

pubDate: 2026-06-31T10:00:00+01:00
headerImage: "/assets/images/blog/maintainers-minutes-2024-07-26/maintainers-wide.png"
headerImageAlt: "Cartoon yellow rubber duck with nf-core logo badge on its body with the nf-core logo."
embedHeaderImage: false
authors:
  - "maxulysse"
label:
  - "maintainers"
---

The 'Maintainers Minutes' aims to give further insight into the workings of the [nf-core maintainers team](/governance#maintainers) by providing brief summaries of the monthly team meetings.

## Overview

The last two maintainer meetings covered a wide range of topics from agentic-coding related topics to infrastructure updates, and of course, the usual discussions about the meaning of life.

Major topics covered in this period:

- Agentic coding and nf-core
- Configs strict syntax
- Deprecations documentation
- Topic migration progress
- Megatests snapshots
- Local modules in pipelines
- r-nf-core-utils
- Summer break and miscellaneous updates

### Agentic coding and nf-core

#### RFC on agents

The [agents.md and AI steering document](https://github.com/nf-core/proposals/issues/141) RFC on agents has been accepted, and Igor is leading the effort.

> Next we will test the current approach in several pipelines, before [adding a version of it to the pipeilnes template](https://github.com/nf-core/tools/pull/4318)

Author: ```suggestion
Next we will test the current approach in several pipelines, before [adding a version of it to the pipelines template](https://github.com/nf-core/tools/pull/4318), [and the modules repo](https://github.com/nf-core/modules/pull/12028).
```

These were some of the several key points that were raised, and what we talked about:

- Snapshots hallucination: AI agents can sometimes generate incorrect content
- Human responsibility: The human launching agents should be responsible, not the reviewers
- Agent origin doesn't matter: We don't care if contributions come from an agent or a human, but the volume is concerning
- Closing unsatisfactory PRs: Maxime recommends just closing PRs if the reviewer is not happy
- Assisted by tags: It would be nice to have an "assisted by" comment or tag somewhere to identify AI-generated contributions

The general consensus was that an "assisted by" tag would be useful, and that in the end the human launching the agent should be responsible for the quality of the contribution.
The reviewers should not be expected to verify the correctness of llm-generated content, and they are free to close PRs if they are not satisfied with the quality.

#### Need for more specifications and documentation

We discussed the need for more documentation and specifications about tools.
This could go in `meta.yml` files so that AI and humans don't remove or misunderstand the underlying logic of modules.

> 

Author: ```suggestion
```

---
title: "Maintainers Minutes: May - June 2026"
subtitle: "Keeping you informed of the latest maintainers discussions"

> pubDate: 2026-06-30T10:00:00+01:00

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pubDate: 2026-07-01T10:00:00+01:00
```

Reviewer 2: That's an impossible date, there is no June 31

Reviewer: oops

Reviewer: fixed

Author: Somehow, managed to merge in the 31 of june... :facepalm:

headerImage: "/assets/images/blog/maintainers-minutes-2024-07-26/maintainers-wide.png"
headerImageAlt: "Cartoon yellow rubber duck with nf-core logo badge on its body with the nf-core logo."
embedHeaderImage: false
authors:
  - "maxulysse"
label:
  - "maintainers"
---

The 'Maintainers Minutes' aims to give further insight into the workings of the [nf-core maintainers team](/governance#maintainers) by providing brief summaries of the monthly team meetings.

## Overview

> The last two maintainer meetings covered a wide range of topics from AI related topics to infrastructure updates, and of course, the usual discussions about the meaning of life.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The last two maintainer meetings covered a wide range of topics from agentic-coding related topics to infrastructure updates, and of course, the usual discussions about the meaning of life.
```
better to be precise here

Major topics covered in this period:

> - AI in general

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Agentic coding and nf-core
```

- Configs strict syntax
- Deprecations documentation
- Topic migration progress
- Megatests snapshots
- Local modules in pipelines
- r-nf-core-utils
- Summer break and miscellaneous updates

> ### AI in general

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Agentic coding and nf-core
```

#### RFC on agents

The [agents.md and AI steering document](https://github.com/nf-core/proposals/issues/141) RFC on agents has been accepted, and Igor is leading the effort.

> This is a significant step towards formalizing how we handle AI-generated contributions and maintaining code quality standards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next we will test the current approach in several pipelines, before [adding a version of it to the pipeilnes template](https://github.com/nf-core/tools/pull/4318)
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Also mention the ongoing modules PR (https://github.com/nf-core/modules/pull/12028)?

Author: done

#### Dealing with PRs made by/with agents

Related to that, we had a long discussion about how to deal with PRs made by or with agents.
These were some of the several key points that were raised, and what we talked about:

> - Snapshots hallucination: AI agents can sometimes generate incorrect or hallucinated content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Snapshots hallucination: AI agents can sometimes generate incorrect content
```

- Human responsibility: The human launching agents should be responsible, not the reviewers
- Agent origin doesn't matter: We don't care if contributions come from an agent or a human, but the volume is concerning
- Closing unsatisfactory PRs: Maxime recommends just closing PRs if the reviewer is not happy
- Assisted by tags: It would be nice to have an "assisted by" comment or tag somewhere to identify AI-generated contributions

The general consensus was that an "assisted by" tag would be useful, and that in the end the human launching the agent should be responsible for the quality of the contribution.

> The reviewers should not be expected to verify the correctness of AI-generated content, and they are free to close PRs if they are not satisfied with the quality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The reviewers should not be expected to verify the correctness of llm-generated content, and they are free to close PRs if they are not satisfied with the quality.
```

Reviewer 2: LLM, with capitals

#### Need for more specifications and documentation

> We discussed the need for more documentation and specifications about tools.

Reviewer: I wasn't at the meeting, so I have no clue from this, what you are talking about

This could go in `meta.yml` files so that AI and humans don't remove or misunderstand the underlying logic of modules.

> #### Igor is our only hope against AI

Reviewer 2: I appreciate the praise, but does this need a separate header?

Igor will lead the effort for creating a steering file for agents, helping guide AI contributions to maintain our quality standards.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
duplication from the first point

#### Open for testing AGENTS.md

AGENTS.md is progressing, and we can probably test it after summer.

> Igor is looking for volunteers, and Maxime is volunteering to test it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
also covered in the first point

### Configs strict syntax

> The configs repository is almost fully Nextflow lint valid with strict syntax.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configs repository is almost fully following strict syntax and passing Nextflow linting.
```

This is a major milestone for improving code quality and consistency across nf-core configurations.

### Deprecations documentation

We need to reach a consensus on deprecation documentation.
Related issues include:

- [nf-core/modules#5602](https://github.com/nf-core/modules/issues/5602)
- [nf-core/tools#4260](https://github.com/nf-core/tools/issues/4260)

The consensus is to create a failure assertion in the test.
And we are assessing the modules deletion process a year after the deprecation.
nf-core tools should handle this nicely, as the modules.json file might still be populated with the deprecated module.

### Topic migration progress

End of May, the topic migration has reached the end of letter H, showing steady progress.

> By the end of June, we are now at the letter M, which shows the dedication of Louis into leading this herculean task.

Reviewer: these are not just tackled alphabetically, so that is a bad measure, better to say that we had 79% at the end of may and 88% at the end of june

> By the end of June, we are now at the letter M, which shows the dedication of Louis into leading this herculean task.

Author: ```suggestion
End of May, the topic migration has reached the end of letter H, and covering 79%, showing steady progress.
By the end of June, we are now at the letter M, which covers 88%, which shows the dedication of Louis into leading this herculean task.
Note that since modules were not worked on alphabetically the letter is merely an indication as which modules we know have been covered for sure, and not a good measure.
```

### Megatests snapshots

Maxime is hacking his way into megatests snapshots, working on improving nf-core's testing infrastructure to better handle large-scale testing scenarios.

### Local modules in pipelines

We discussed what to do with local modules in release PRs.
The consensus was to:

- Document them in an issue
- Try to push as many as possible to the nf-core/modules repo
- Recommend using `modules patch` when they diverge too much from the nf-core/modules repo

### r-nf-core-utils

The r-nf-core-utils package has been approved, and released.
This package will make writing R code for nf-core modules easier by providing helper functions for parsing Nextflow inputs and producing log/version files.
A proof of concept is available at [nf-core/modules#11933](https://github.com/nf-core/modules/pull/11933).

### Containers in nf-core

#### tools dev has a new container subcommand

> Tools dev has a new subcommand for containers (in modules).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tools dev has a new subcommand for migrating to seqera containers, `nf-core modules container create`.
```

It will facilitate automated container building and management.

> Modules will get ARM support in a much easier way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Additionally, modules will get ARM compatibility on the side with this.
```

#### Wave with different build template

Seqera containers via wave can be done using a different build template (pixi).

> There might be some issues with the default base image that are being looked into.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Was just a short side note I think
